
Definitions:

subaltern = low ranking officer?

elite: dominant groups. Foreign/Indigenous
    all-india level: feudal magnates
    regional-local level: ^ + acting on
interest of ^
   
    heterogeneous, differed in space.

people = subaltern classes


# I

Not all peasant revolts are in violation
of his place in colonial society.

Subalternity materialized by
    - structure of property, 
    - institutionalized by law.
    - sanctified by religion
    - made tolerable/desirable by tradition

Rebel => destroying the above.

Nothing in primary sources => myth that
peasant insurrections - spontaneous and
unpremeditated.

Protagonists => tried
petitions,deputations and other form of
supplication before declaring war.
eg: Kol, Santal,  Munda revolts

## Summary

Explain and analyze insurgency -
insurgents weren't idiots. how it was
not quick up, quick suppress - but
planned, well grounded and all that.


# II

Problems: Sources
- Primary: Originated with bureaucrats,
  soldiers, sleuths and others employed
  by government. Even statements from
  the other side indirect reporting.
  Biased."Contigent to state"
  Examples:
    - Santal rebellion: Peasants armed
      as there god told them to.
    - Barasat: Fanatic insurgents.
      Defiance and utmost force.

## Summary

Why did this persist.

# III
- Secondary sources
Example of magistrate recording the
instant reports as history, and choosing
to publish his narrative as different,
post-mortem analysis. "Shorn of
contemporaneity of a discourse"

Page 5 contains a lot of examples.

Secondary resource => work of
administrators.
"Their work includes some of the most
widely used and highly esteemed accounts
of peasant uprisings written either as
monographs on particular events, such as
Jamini Mohan Ghosh's on the
Sannyasi-and-Faqir disturbances and J.
c.  Price's on the Chuar Rebellion, or
as statements included in more
comprehensive histories like W. W.
Hunter's story of the Santal hool in The
Annals of Rural Bengal." (p. 52)

Administrators wrote about the past but
not with them as functionarise =>
certain degree of objective standpoint.

"they did not figure as functionaries
themselves, their statements are taken
to be more authentic and less biased
than those of their opposite numbers
whose accounts, based on remini-
scences, were necessarily contaminated
by their intervention in rural
disturbances as agents of the Raj" (p.
52)




"Each of these elementary functional
units thus implies a node which as not
quite materialized into an actual ")
development, a sort of zero sign by
means 'of which the narrative affirms
its tension. And precisely because
history as the verbal representation by
man of his own past is by its very
nature so full of hazard, so replete
indeed with the verisimilitude of
sharply differen- tiated choices, that
it never ceases to excite. The
historical discourse is the world's
oldest thriller)" (p. 55)

[Take taxonomy figure from here]


# V

"The integrative operation is carried
out in its discourse by the other class
of basic narrative units, that is,
indices. A necessary and indispensable
cor- relate of functions they are
distinguished from the latter in some
important respects" (p. 56)

"As a result a discourse could be either
predominantly metonymic or metaphorical
depending on whether a significantly
larger number of its components are
syntagmatically ratified or
paradigmatically" (p. 57)

"Working intimately together with the
latter they make the despatch into more
than a mere register of happenings and
help to inscribe into it a meaning, an
interpretation so that the protagonists
emerge from it not as peasants but as
'Insurgents', not as Musalman but as
1anatic'; their action not as resistance
to the tyranny of the rural elite but as
'the most daring and 'Wanton atrocities
on the inhabitants'; their project not
as a revolt against zamindari but as
'defying the authority of the State',
not as a search for an alternative order
in which the peace of the countryside
would not be violated by the officially
condoned anarchy of semi-feudal
landlordism but as, 'disturbing file
public tranquility"

Generalizing from a bunch, using
language to convenience and all that.

[table in 59]


"Hence these documents make no sense
except in terms of a code of
pacification which, under the Raj, was a
complex of coercive intervention by the
State and its proteges, the native
elite, with arms and words.
Representatives of the primary type of
discourse in the historiography of
peasant revolts, these are specimens of
the prose of counter-insurgency"



# VI

Mark Thornhill, secondary source
asserting the reports to be history.

Drawing from discrete locations in time
and creating taxonomys, breaking up the
sequential events - dechronologising it.

Anxieties of the local custodian of law
and order are embodied in the sources.


How numbers don't show clear statistic.
12 British Officers > 20 * 12 Chuars.


# VII

How tertiary 
